---
layout: post
title: Poster presentation at the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Klinische Neurophysiologieund Funktionelle Bildgebung (DGKN) conference
date: 2024-03-07
inline: false
---
<i>Scroll down for the poster</i>

Today I presented a poster at the <a href="https://kongress.dgkn.de/home-kongress/">DGKN 2024 conference</a>. 

<b>Summary</b>: For our memory to work successfully, we need to retrieve information and evaluate this to assess its validity. It is thought that a memory network, including the <i>prefrontal cortex</i> and the <i>posterior parietal cortex</i>, plays an important role in this. However, little is known about the mechanisms by which these two brain regions interact. Neural brain waves <i>(oscillations)</i> enable interaction within and between brain regions to complete cognitive tasks. While neuronal oscillations can be measured through <i>electroencephalography (EEG)</i>, the direct role of neural oscillations can be explored through <i>transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS)</i>, because it can modulate brain activity in a rhythmic manner.
In the current study, we used <i>tACS</i> to entrain frontal and parietal oscillations to the <i>theta (4 Hz)</i> and <i>gamma (50 Hz)</i> frequency, and in this way tried to alter specific memory processes. Participants performed a verbal memory task in which they encoded words in one of two conditions and later were tested on their recognition memory for these words. With this memory task we measured: memory for words <i>(item memory accuracy)</i>, memory for the encoding context <i>(source memory accuracy)</i>, and item and source <i>memory confidence</i>. We applied <i>tACS</i> while participants were remembering the words and explored the electrophysiological correlates with <i>EEG</i>. Our <i>EEG</i> findings confirm and add to the proposed roles of endogenous <i>theta</i> and <i>gamma</i> oscillations in memory processes. In addition, we show how EEG correlates can predict individual differences in subsequent <i>tACS</i> effects on memory processes. These findings provide important insights and guidelines for future implementation of non-invasive brain stimulation to alter memory and other cognitive processes.

For more detailed information, see the poster below.

<i>(posterior parietal cortex)</i>

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        <div><a href="/assets/img/DGKN_Poster_2024.jpg">
            {% include figure.liquid path="/assets/img/DGKN_Poster_2024.jpg" title="DGKN Poster" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" src="/assets/img/DGKN_Poster_2024.jpg" %}
        </a></div>
    </div>
</div>
